---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html objectid="https://cdil.lib.uidaho.edu/images/palouse_sm.jpg" %}

## How The Philippines is Situated in Asia

In my perspective, The Philippines, being a subject of prolonged colonization, internal political struggles and revolts, and interaction with other countries brought forth a myriad of characteristics comparable to the Asian identity.

Such characteristics that I observed are the multi-faceted nature of Filipinos and their culture, our inspiring tenacity to every obstacle we face individually or societally, and our general appreciation for what is genuinely ours and other foreign cultures as well. 

First, like other nations in Asia, we are profoundly knowledgeable, participative, and grounded towards our existing belief systems in the country. In fact, with our population being predominantly Catholic gains us the title of being “the only Christian nation in Asia” (Miller). The widespread practice of this religion massively shaped our widely-held beliefs toward our prominent societal issues (such as the passage of the SOGIE Bill) due to the conservative notions it permits. However, religion also massively plays out in the current Philippine society as crucial days in the Holy Calendar, for example, such as the Holy Week and Christmas are holidays widely observed amongst Filipinos. The aforementioned ideas and concepts on fiestas, festivals, and processions are brought by being assimilated to Spanish culture. Not to mention the existence of other religions such as Islam, predominant in Mindanao (Miller), in the country, as well. Whereas, the colonization of Americans further drove our propensity towards seeking foreign excellence as they introduced their education system to us. Right now, due to the ever-growing influence the English language has reached worldwide, comes a continuing need to be proficient and fluent in English. The overt influence of belief systems and colonial influences is widely observed among other nations in Asia, due to being subjects of colonization such as Vietnam and Indonesia in Southeast Asia (“Southeast Asia”) and countries in other regions like India from the hands of British colonizers in South Asia, as well. 
Secondly, being situated and subjected to calamities and internal pressures allowed us to develop wide-known resilience for whatever obstacle we face. The former includes the fact that our country is an archipelago situated in the Pacific Ocean and the Pacific Ring of Fire (Hilotin). Whereas, internal pressures are usually stemmed from our own messy nature of politics that are filled with beings intently ill to fill their pocket with loads of money and their reputation laced and praised with gold. This led to salient problems in the nation such as the overarching poverty that remains within a huge population of Filipinos that led to migration inside and outside the country to fend for themselves and their families. This is no different from societal issues that arise within the region. Usually claims for absolute power and domination from primarily male leaders contribute to a domino effect of issues in a nation. 
Lastly, Filipinos are known for their intense pride for what is their own, especially in the global stage; with the inclusion of beauty pageants, international singing contests, or famous award shows. In fact, it is noted that according to an SWS survey, 9 out of 10 Filipinos are “proud to be Filipino” (Abanto). Thus, this is also reflected in how we continue to propagate our traditional cultures and ideals despite the pressures of globalization and imperialism, which led to our propensity to favor everything foreign; perceivable are these biases from our everyday discourse in social media, for example that also tends to favor foreign media. 
	All the aforementioned aspects are similarly reflected, one way or another, to the vast diversity of Asian cultures. Thus, the Philippines in its diversity constitutes its own unique identity in Asian identity. Having been developed and attached to values that are influenced and stood the test of time, the multi-faceted aspects of our experience are fully lived out and comparable to other manifestations of the Asian experience. We can perceive this through viewing the other section of the site, Literature. 
